SURVEY OF DEAD WORLDS - OVERVIEW:

The survey of dead worlds should be offered to the player at some point after they have surveyed four formerly-inhabited worlds. (Mostly, that means Tomb Worlds, but Toxic Worlds with the nuclear_devastation modifier are also suitable.) There is a repeating event that checks if the conditions of the survey have been met, and makes the offer if they have been. It begins checking 30-40 years after game start, and then rechecks every year. To trigger the event without waiting the 30-40 years, enter "event mem_tomb_survey.1" into the console after you have surveyed four suitable planets.

If the player accepts the offer in the event, four special projects are placed on the map, one at each suitable world. Each special project requires a science ship. Once the special project is completed, a randomly selected event from the following list is displayed:

COSMIC ACCIDENT: This world was struck by a meteor. One-time society bonus. Should not fire on world where nuclear war is known to have occurred (e.g., due to nuclear_devastation modifier or giant tank anomaly).
DANGEROUS SCIENCE: The world was devastated by a science experiment gone wrong. One-time society and physics bonus. Should not fire on world where nuclear war is known to have occurred (e.g., due to nuclear_devastation modifier or giant tank anomaly).
MURDER: The world was devastated by unknown aliens. One-time society bonus. Should not fire on world where the planets are known to have killed themselves (e.g., due to giant tank anomaly).
NUCLEAR JIHAD: The world saw a prolonged religious war ending in nuclear annihilation. One-time society bonus.
A TERRIBLE MISTAKE: War was triggered by a computer error. One-time society bonus.

No event should ever appear more than once. Once all four planets have been investigated, a finalizing event is displayed. The text of the event depends on the country's spiritualism/materialism ethos. The player receives a one-time society bonus, and can now build a special building. If they are spiritualist or fanatic spiritualist, they may build the Cathedral of Dead Gods. If they are materialist, fanatic materialist, or neutral, they may build the Archive of Dead Worlds.

ARCHIVE OF DEAD WORLDS: Empire-unique building, provides a +20% bonus to society research on this planet.
CATHEDRAL OF DEAD GODS: Empire-unique building, provides an empire-wide -10% bonus to ethics divergence.

TOOLS FOR DEBUGGING:

I included the following events to make your life easier; they may be activated from the console. Also, if you haven't seen it already, entering the survey command in the console surveys all possible worlds.

asnys.2: Changes four worlds in your home system to tomb worlds. Once they're surveyed, it should take a month at most for the event to pop up.
asnys.3: Allows you to build both Archive of Dead Worlds and Cathedral of Dead Gods, regardless of whether you've completed the Survey of Dead Worlds.
asnys.5: If you're currently in the Survey of Dead Worlds, instantly completes the quest and transitions you to the end event.
asnys.6: Changes four worlds in your home system to toxic worlds with the nuclear_devastation modifier. These should be acceptable targets for the survey of dead worlds, but should not generate the Cosmic Accident or Dangerous Science results when you investigate them.
asnys.7: Adds a tomb world with the ship_graveyard modifier to your home star system. This should NOT be a valid target for Survey of Dead Worlds.

KNOWN ISSUES:

4: Odd persistence of progress bars after project completion.
5: Should probably ping the "have you found alien life yet" events.
9: Should not be able to pick worlds with inhabitants for survey targets.
11: Should not be able to pick worlds that have had event anomaly.4145 occur there.
12: Should not be able to pick worlds that have had event anomaly.4155 occur there.
13: Needs graphics for the Archive of Dead Worlds and Cathedral of Dead Gods buildings (currently using a placeholder).
16: Should have controlled outcome if result of primitives nuking themselves.

FUTURE PLANS:

1: Add at least three more possibilities to the "how did they die" set, at least one of which is some kind of actual nuclear war.

  b: Suicide ("Quietly Into the Night")

2: Make it possible to identify the murderer in the MURDERER event - and it turns out to be a Fallen Empire! (GASP!)
3: Make it be able to use Toxic Worlds with greenhouse_effect modifier as survey targets. (This will require 1-2 more outcome event(s).)
4: Other idea notes:

  a: Grey goo event
  b: Quarantined world

mem_tomb_world_already_told